---
layout: post
title:  "Tamagotchi Web App End Result"
date:   2020-11-06 17:32:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
This week was the due date for the completed Tamagotchi type app. The end product turned out
well, if a bit bare bones. However, the app was built to spec, and everything asked for
was fulfilled. I'll be going over some code fragments which were vital in the success of the
project.

This fragment utilizes jquery to call for functions for a selection of buttons:
{% highlight javascript %}
    $('.treat-button').click(clickedTreatButton);
    $('.play-button').click(clickedPlayButton);
    $('.exercise-button').click(clickedExerciseButton);
    $('.cleanliness-button').click(clickedCleanlinessButton);
{% endhighlight %}

This fragment is a function that activates when the treat button is clicked.
{% highlight javascript %}
function clickedTreatButton() {
   // Increase pet happiness
   pet_info.treatHappy();
   // Increase pet weight
   pet_info.treatWeight();
   // Reduce cleanliness
   pet_info.treatCleanliness();

   checkAndUpdatePetInfoInHtml();
 }
{% endhighlight %}
The function at the end calls two more functions that check for negative values of happiness
and weight and resets said negative values to zero. The second function updates the values of
the Tamagotchi info in the HTML page.

The following code fragments outline the two functions that check the pet info:
{% highlight javascript %}
function checkWeightAndHappinessBeforeUpdating() {
    // Add conditional so if weight/happiness is lower than zero, set it back to zero
    if (pet_info.weight <= 0 ){
      pet_info.setWeightZero();
    }
    if (pet_info.happiness <= 0 ){
      pet_info.setHappyZero();
    }
    if (pet_info.cleanliness <= 0){
      pet_info.setCleanlinessZero();
    }
  }
  
  // Updates your HTML with the current values in your pet_info dictionary
function updatePetInfoInHtml() {
  $('.name').text(pet_info['name']);
  $('.weight').text(pet_info['weight']);
  $('.happiness').text(pet_info['happiness']);
  $('.cleanliness').text(pet_info['cleanliness']);
}
{% endhighlight %}

The other functions that set numerical values to zero or increase/decrease values
involve the use of plus or minus equals conditionals or a single equal sign that sets the 
value of an element to zero.