---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 1, Posting Stuff and Looking Pretty While Doing It"
date:   2020-09-11 16:33:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Unfortunately the new website theme is being difficult, so while this blog will cover how to install a new theme for
your website, I'll need to run some tests to make the new theme doesn't overwrite my current site.

In this example we'll be installing the primer theme.
First, open your Gemfile and add the theme with the line
gem "jekyll-theme-primer"

Open Git Bash, be sure you're in the website folder and enter the command:
gem install "jekyll-theme-primer"

After that, input
bundle install

then replace your current theme in your _config.yml file with
theme: jekyll-theme-primer

and test with
bundle exec jekyll serve

to be sure that the new theme is working.

As for making a new blog post, there should be a "Welcome to Jekyll" post already in your _posts folder. The easiest way
to start creating new posts is to take the example file, copy it, and fill out the existing format options which include the
layout, title, date and categories with your custom information you wish to show on your website. 

After you have your new file renamed to fit proper conventions 
yyyy-mm-dd-title.markdown

you're ready to add, commit and push your new blog file to your GitHub repository.

git add .

Will add the file to the local repository and stage it for commit.

git commit -m "meaningful message"
Commits all added changes and prepares files to be pushed.

Finally,
git push origin your-branch
will push the changes in your local repository to your remote GitHub repository.

Next time, we'll go over some html that I learned in comp 484 last week.