---
layout: post
title:  "AWS Instance Setup Basics"
date:   2020-11-13 19:17:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

In this blog, we will cover launching an AWS EC2 instance. First off, you'll need an AWS
account. A free tier is available which allows for 750 hours of t2 micro instance uptime
per month, which is very handy for experimentation. After you have an account, you'll need to
choose an AMI, or a machine image. There are many to choose from, but for this particular case
we'll assume an ubuntu 18.04 image has been chosen.

After choosing an image, you'll want to choose an instance. There are also many to choose from,
but in this case we'll choose the free tier eligible micro t2.

You'll want to configure a security group for your instance, or attach an already existing one 
to your new instance. However, in this circumstance you probably don't have one. An easy way to set up
your security group is to have port 80 or the HTTP port open along with port 22, which is SSH, open only to your local machine. There
should be an option that allows for AWS to automatically detect your IP address to add as the only allowed IP for SSH
connection. 

After you have your security group set up, you'll want to generate a key pair for your instance. You must have one, for
if not, you will be unable to connect to your instance. After that, your instance should be ready for launch. Wait a moment
for your instance to start running and you will be ready to connect to it.

If you are running a linux or macOS machine, you can use your built in SSH client to connect to your new instance with
the provided public DNS name. However, if you are running a Windows instance, you'll need to use PuTTY or another
SSH client for Windows to connect to your instance.
new instance.

And that's it, your instance should be able to be remotely accessible by you and is ready to be used for your purposes.

