---
layout: post
title:  "Does JavaScript Actually have Java in it?"
date:   2020-10-16 17:52:31 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

This time we will be going over what exactly JavaScript is along with some basic coding for it. 
Javascript is a scripting language that interscts with HTML and CSS to change what you see and can do on a 
website. Java and Javascript only have the "java" in their names as a commonality. Javascript was originally
called Mocha, then renamed to LiveScripts and then to JavaSripts when Netscape and Sun Microsystems made a 
licensing agreement that included the language. The original plan was to create a scripting language that could
both work with and cash in on Java's popularity. JavaScript conforms to ECMAScript standard, a spec for interpreting 
code like JavaScript. JavaScript also has libraries like JQuery, that allows for elaborate work with less code.
Frameworks for JavaScript also exist, including AngularJS, React and Vue.js. These allow for developers to build apps that 
generate advanced websites for them. JavaScript platforms like Node.js also exist, and are used to run operations and apps
on servers and computers using JavaScript.

Some examples of JavaScript code is basic math, like var x = 10; and having x output 10, and having the browser tell what
date and time it is. For this you have to input var date = new Date(), hold down shift and hit return to create a new line
then input alert("Today is " + date);

Next time we'll go further into JavaScript along with project information if I get more information on it.